teenage son
16m addicted to video game screams now
has headaches and does nothing
so backstory my son 16 always loved
gaming his older sister bought him a ps4
several years ago as a gift and he had
an iphone for several years too wasn't
really a problem until last year before
the pandemic started then he started
missing school because he wasn't feeling
well was hard to wake up seemed moody we
finally figured out that it was because
he wasn't going to bed at a good time
staying
up late playing games or watching stuff
on his phone
grade started to suffer as a result too
the pandemic hit and he pretty much gave
up on school for the rest of the
semester
only doing the bare minimum summer came
and we didn't change things up too much
his mother and i are divorced and he
spends part of the week with me he
spends part of the week with me and part
of the week with her in the fall we
decided to keep him home and do
homeschooling because of the pandemic
that only lasted a month or so before he
fell
back on his old habits i grounded him
for from his ps4 and switch his iphone
had broken by this point so he didn't
have a cell phone any longer we had been
working with a therapist for my grandson
so we talked to her about my son
she suggested that he start earning back
his privileges but he had to admit to he
had to admit to what caused the loss of
privileges and came
and come up with ways to earn the back
he refused
i've shared custody of my ex with my
ex-wife she thought i was too strict and
only went along with the grounding from
video games while he is with her she was
still letting him watch tv
and he was the one that was manipulating
her into letting him stay home from
school for the most part
he missed the most school when he was
with her and barely missed when he was
with me
after that start of the new year he
claimed he had a headache that never
went away that made it to where he
couldn't do any school work at all so he
claims
took him to doctors and a headache
specialist and didn't find anything
medically wrong
started prescribing some some meds to
try to get rid of the headaches but
nothing has really worked or so he
claims
mostly still on a messed up sleep
schedule despite us telling him he
needed to try to go to bed
at a decent time etc i just found out
that he's been sneaking video games by
playing on a game boy he had that i
forgot about because he's been getting
away with that that's why i figured he
didn't come
care to earn back his screen time
now i'm also
now i also suspect about his headaches
whether he actually has them or if
they're just as or if they're as bad as
he says they are he refuses to go to
therapy i mean right now he pretty much
has gotten his way he does zero school
work watches tv at his mom's and
apparently now has been playing game boy
when he's over here and just sleeping
weird hours
because of the lying and hiding his
habit or just trying to find another fix
i'm afraid that he'll just find
something else to do once i take his
game boy away and forcing him to keep
his door open only allowing him to sleep
in his room etc is that really gonna
solve anything just looking for ideas on
how to deal with this his mom thinks i'm
too strict and also suffers from chronic
pain herself so she tends to go easier
on him and as a result he would just
rather stay with her than come over to
my place when i'm supposed to have him
i don't know if he's too prideful or
ashamed to admit when he's messed up and
that's why he refuses to talk to someone
else or even to try to earn his screen
privileges back he also feels he's
treated unfairly because his older
brother had more way more freedom in
that we didn't regulate his screen use
as much but he was getting good grades
working a job and having
extracurriculars
i've told my son that he would have the
same freedom but he would have to show
me he could be responsible to and
clearly his addictions to screens was
affecting the rest of his life
is it time
for even more hard love and more
punishment slash monitoring i can
monitor him when i'm awake but all bets
are off when i'm in bed or when he's
over at his mom's
we've tried to get him to do other
things with us but he refuses for the
most part
okay
what do you all think about that
um
so let's start by analyzing the post a
little bit and i'm going to point out
some language to y'all okay
and i think this post is a prime example
of like how we try to work at
healthygamer
so the first thing is that sun has
always loved gaming okay
um
wasn't a problem until the pandemic
this is going to be important right
um
wasn't feeling well we finally figured
it out
okay
so dad thinks he has an answer
and then grades started to suffer the
pandemic hit he pretty much gave up on
school only doing the bare minimum
okay there's divorced parents that's an
important piece
um
i grounded him so dad once again so dad
is like i'm going to ground you because
i figured it out and gaming is the
problem so you're going to punish him
right
so
we've been working with a therapist for
my grandson she suggested that he start
earning back his privileges but he had
to admit what caused the the
loss of his privileges he refused so
doesn't want to do therapy
but
there may be a good reason for that why
are people resistant so shared custody
with ex-wife this is going to be
important
she thought
i was too strict while he's with her she
was letting him watch tv and he was the
one manipulating her oh this is
interesting
so sun is manipulative
right
at the start of the new now son has a
headache
okay
so they couldn't find anything medically
wrong
and then the dad uses the word claims
or so he claims or so he claims
right
mostly still on a messed up sleep
schedule i just found out that he's been
sneaking video games
i'm also suspect about the headaches
i mean right now he's pretty much gotten
his way
so here's the gotten his way what does
that imply to y'all
so
he's gonna find another fix
right i'm afraid he'll just do something
else
forcing him to keep his door open
right
his mom thinks i'm too strict
so she tends to go easier on him
and now he doesn't even want to come
over to dad's what's dad's what's dad's
understanding of why he doesn't want to
come over
oh it's because my son can't manipulate
me i'm not going to get manipulated
heaven forbid that mom actually like
tries to understand her son
like that couldn't be it maybe son
actually really likes mom's place not
because she she lets him manipulate her
because she has empathy
and tries to support him
i don't know if he's too prideful or
ashamed when he's
to admit when he's messed up
i think that there's a third option here
as well maybe
maybe he's not maybe he hasn't messed up
right because when did these problems
start
they started during the pandemic
and that's why he refuses to talk
someone
i don't know if he's too
prideful or shamed so this is the crux
of our program
so if you don't know what's going on
with your kids why don't you ask them
here's a crazy idea
maybe you should ask
and that's why he refuses to talk to
someone else or even try to earn his
screen privileges back maybe he refuses
to earn his screen privileges back or
try to play your game because it's a
game that he's not going to win
right
he also feels he's being treated
unfairly
so
here's here's what i'd say
this is a problem where the sun is
basically doing what the dad taught them
to do that's what's going on here so dad
diagnoses a problem and doesn't really
care what anyone else thinks
right we're not at least we don't see it
in the post we're not hearing a whole
lot of like dialogue or trying to
understand dad diagnoses the problem
you're staying up too late therefore
this is going to change
based on what i want to do i'm just
going to implement what i want to happen
so if the grades aren't good i'm going
to ground you i'm going to take the ps4
and switch away
and so the the dad is just going to find
some way to like
do what he thinks and it's a power
struggle so this isn't a 12 year old
anymore this is a 16 year old 16 year
olds have opinions they have thoughts
they also have struggles
i'm not hearing so what i'm hearing is
that generally speaking the pandemic has
been terrible for most people's mental
health addictions across the board have
gone up depression has gone up anxiety
has gone up
and so people it's tough
and yet what's being
happening is dad is now distrusting
doesn't believe what a son is doing and
they're like in war they're antagonistic
they're fighting against each other
and so they're in a competition where
dad is like i'm gonna take your game
away and kid is like i'm gonna sneak a
game
so the kid is now learning how to
so you guys get that like the basic
problem is there's no dialogue there's
no attempted understanding there's just
i have my goal and i'm gonna move
towards it no matter what you do or how
you feel so no matter what happens like
if you don't do what i say you're gonna
do i'm gonna take away your video game
i'm gonna increase the monitoring more
i'm gonna restrict you more and so the
kid is playing the same game because
that's what the kid has been taught when
you have a problem with someone you
don't actually ask them hey what's going
on here you don't engage in dialogue
that's why the kid is resistant to
therapy
right because it's like
dialogue is not valuable in this
relationship and so the kid is gonna do
the same thing
so dad is like i'm gonna find a way to
get to where i think this relationship
needs to go that's the overarching
approach that dad has
it's not about understanding what's
going on with the kid it's all about
this is what you need the problem is the
sleep schedule the problem is the video
game so let me take that away let me
take that away let me take that away let
me fix it dad is a fixer
and as dad has fixed
more and more things what's happened
started out with like doing the bare
minimum now the kid has headaches and
can't do any schoolwork good job dad
did a good job
right because the more you're fixing the
problem
the worse things are getting like what
do you think about that
it's interesting
fix it more
right so dad is demonstrating a lot of
good stuff he's posting he's asking for
help he's like i don't know if if this
is actually like gonna work should i do
more tough love
that's good dad's making an effort
right
and so when dad teaches you hey when you
have a problem you just need to use
whatever tools at your disposal to fix
it
that's what the kid is doing as well
maybe the kid is depressed maybe the kid
is struggling in school maybe the
problems aren't the video games
themselves but that it's really hard to
stay motivated maybe kid has adhd
and he's like potentially failing out of
school and it's really hard for him so
he uses the video games to cope
and if you take away the ps4 and you
take away the switch like let me explain
something to you
if you've taken away your son's ps4 and
switch and they're playing freaking game
boy
in the middle of the night video game
addiction is not the problem
right if you're resorting to like it's
hard to get addicted to a game boy
like it's really hard to get addicted to
game boy am i wrong there chat like do
you guys get that
that's using gaming as coping
it's not like he's playing some gotcha
game right which is like
designed to addict people
it's not that's not what he's playing
it's not like some endless mmo it's
freaking game boy
so if your kid is addicted to video game
game boy like
video game addiction is not i would
guess 99 of the time gaming addiction is
not the problem and so what the kid is
going to do is he's going to find he's
going to play the same game that dad is
teaching him to play which is when you
believe something you don't engage with
someone there's no compromise there's my
way or the highway that's dad's approach
and so the kid is like okay if the game
that we're playing this is what you're
subconsciously teaching your child my
way or the highway and the kid is gonna
he's gonna do the same thing so i'm
gonna steal the game boy i'm going to
sneak it i'm not going to engage with
you i'm not going to talk with you i'm
not going to engage with the therapist
because what is the background of
therapy
just think about this the therapist is
like he needs to understand why he's
lost his privileges what the [ __ ]
the therapist isn't even bothering to
ask why are you playing games in the
first place
the why why do you think the kid isn't
going into therapy it's because the kid
doesn't have a voice it's like therapy
is being used as a tool of manipulation
and control by the dad
he needs to articulate why he's been a
bad boy and we took the games away then
he'll get them back
maybe the purpose of therapy is to ask
the kid
what's going on man
why are you playing the games
are you struggling what's it been like
being at home
like maybe start there maybe start by
actually engaging with your child and
asking them what's going on with you it
seems like you're struggling can i help
maybe ask your kid can i help instead of
here let me fix it for you and punish
you
with a side of punishment
here's here's a here's a main course
there's a fix-it burger with a side of
punishment
maybe ask can i help what's going on try
to understand
because now the kid has figured out the
trump card okay
psychosomatic illness so i've seen this
so much so like
you know i i arguably i specialize in a
lot of things but i'd say like at some
point 30 or 40 percent of like the
referrals that i got were people with
psychosomatic illness
so psychosomatic illness is like one of
these things where there's some kind of
symptom and we'll talk about this in a
second there's like some kind of symptom
or like illness that like can't be
medically explained so headaches are a
good example of this brain fog is
another good example of this ibs or
irritable bowel syndrome uh pots
postural orthostatic
tachycardic syndrome
is another good example of this
various autoimmune conditions
fibromyalgia cprs
sorry crps complex regional pain
syndrome
like eczema
headaches
like these are all things that are
psychosomatic in nature
and so what happens is when like when
the mind suffers
and has no coping mechanism or outlet
for that suffering it manifests in the
body right there's even like physiologic
evidence for this we'll go if you guys
want to hear about that we'll talk about
that in a second the mechanism through
which these things happen and so as the
parent takes away the coping mechanism
coping back you're taking away the
copium
and punishing them more
right then there's a conflict between
like mom and dad
and then the kid starts getting sick
i've seen this like a thousand times
and now the kids got the trump card the
kid doesn't want it's not about video
games the kid doesn't want to go to
school
the kid is afraid that he can't go to
school the kid is maybe in love with
someone that doesn't like them back
maybe has adhd and is struggling in
school maybe he's afraid that they're
going to be doomed maybe he's afraid
that they won't get get into good
college and they they'll be like judged
by everyone around them
maybe his kid is intimidated because he
knows that older brother is a gamer and
does extracurriculars in his has big
shoes to fill and younger brother knows
there's no way i can ever live up to the
shadow that my older brother has left
and so like he's like oh i need an
excuse for my poor performance so now
i'm medically unable i can't do homework
anymore
headache
the kid is going to win this game this
is something that parents need to
understand the kids are going to win
they're going to win because the next
thing that parents do is they send them
off to like wilderness camps
right it's a combination of fixing and
punishment
that's what parents in this situation do
and so like it's all about power
dynamics it's not about collaboration or
cooperation
it's about i'm going to force you to do
what is best for you because i think
it's best for you
and this is where a toxic relationship
comes from now kid doesn't even want to
go to dad's place dad assumes it's
because i don't let him watch tv well
like what the hell do you expect him to
do all day
maybe it's because mom expresses some
degree of empathy maybe mom knows what
it's like to have chronic pain
maybe there's a reason why he doesn't
want to go to dad's place
like
ever consider that maybe maybe the
reason he
goes to mom's place and his dad's words
right he manipulates her she lets
herself be manipulated maybe she's
empathic
maybe it's not manipulation maybe your
kid isn't like a sociopath who's like
claiming all this stuff
it's possible he's actually suffering so
that's the other thing i want you all to
think about
kid is having headaches
and dad
doesn't believe him you guys get that
from the post dad doesn't believe him
so how do you think that translates into
dad's words how do you think that
translates into dad's tone how do you
think that translates into
how the child feels
about their dad
what's the relationship there when you
go to you know specialist after
specialist and you do everything that a
good dad is supposed to do but in your
heart of hearts you think your kid is
faking it
like what does that do to the kid
right whereas mom is like yeah i
understand like i have chronic pain so
like i know what it's like to go to
doctors
and get tests after test after test and
then tell you nothing is wrong because i
feel it it's wrong
now i'm not trying to crucify dad here
but this is a prime example of what we
see
in our parenting program his parents
come in thinking like this
the good news is that parents are
willing to change and it's just about
taking a step back and working with your
kid
right it's about sitting down and asking
your kid what can i do to help instead
of fixing it maybe ask them what can i
do to help how can i understand what
you're going through what's tough about
your life
why are you playing the video game
why is it so addictive to you
and you can even share your concerns
this is what we advocate for parents
we start by alliance building so you
have to learn how to talk to your kid
and understand what's going on in their
life
because you can't conquer video game
addiction on your own if your kid is
fighting against you it's never going to
work
right all that's going to happen you may
squash the video game addiction and it's
gonna pop up it's gonna be like a game
of whack-a-mole where they're gonna have
other problems
so we see this where like kids will
start doing things like lighting fires
and they'll like do things like start
stealing and other kinds of acting out
behaviors they'll get into drugs there
are things like that that happen
you know if you just squash the video
game without addressing the underlying
causes of the video game you're in big
trouble because they'll just manifest or
they'll manifest in a psychosomatic way
all of that negative energy will
manifest in some other way
so it starts by understanding your kid
and like building an alliance with them
and then by all means set healthy limits
right so the conversation with your kid
is hey i understand like you know the
pandemic has been rough for you i
understand that it's hard
do you want to go to college like you
have to sit down with your kid and ask
like do you want to go to college
okay
what is it like how do you think you're
doing the kid is like i'm terrified
because i know i'm not going to get into
college
and then the right move for dad is like
you have to ask the kid okay i would
like to help you if you want to go to
college to help you get into college
do you want my help
are you afraid that even with my help
you won't be able to make it i can
understand that
because i don't know if you're gonna
make it but i'm willing to try if you
want my help
because the kid is taking the power you
guys got that dad is like trying to
exert power in the relationship and kid
is stealing it right back
it sneak like kid is gonna win your kid
is gonna win
any conflict between parent and child
kid is gonna win
that's what i've learned having two
daughters ages six and four
right even if the parent wins the parent
loses
so you have to support your kid
collaborate with your kid build an
alliance with your kid and then because
the thing is like i don't know if you
guys have had interactions with your
parents but like you all have goals
right so why do you come here why do you
come to me it's because i support you
and your goals
i don't tell you you're dumb for feeling
a certain way or sometimes i do
right so i call called this one guy a
real life smurf like that wasn't the
nicest thing to say but like you say
with compassion you say with the goal of
help and the person's asking for help
so as a parent you have to like you
support people in what they want to do
and like this is the cool thing about
our program is like when parents do this
it's amazing it's like transformative so
we've had like like we had one kid who
you know so
kid had confidence problems so he played
a bunch of video games so we like sat
dad learned how to talk to his kid
dad was like hey what do you think about
like learning jujitsu kid is like yeah
that's dope
you know when my when my friends were
playing video games i was studying the
blade right
and so then then like here's a pro level
question if you guys want pro level
question that you that i t we teach our
parents to ask
so you say you want to learn jiu jitsu
so next week when we sign you off for
jujitsu class and it's time to go
and you tell me that you don't want to
go and you change your mind do you want
me to listen to you
so when you tell me you don't want to go
next week because i have a feeling that
could happen i just want to know what do
you want me to do do you want me to hold
you accountable to what you want now and
do you want me to try to force you to go
or do you want me to just let it slide
if you change your mind
you ask that question one week ahead of
time
that question is awesome it's like
the most op question
because you're asking the child
do i get to control you next week or not
and the child is like yeah i want you i
want you to force me to go
right and then like when when it comes
like then the parent has it and he's
like look i wouldn't normally force you
but you asked me to do this so like
i'm choosing to listen to you from a
week ago as opposed to like the you from
now
and i'm gonna force you to go
as best as i can i'm gonna force you i
can't really like i'm not gonna like
pick you up and manhandle you and stick
you in the car but i'm gonna force you
to go and then tomorrow morning i'm
going to ask you whether this was the
right move or not
so i'm going to ask you tomorrow morning
when next week rolls around do you want
me to force you or do you not want me to
force you
and then the kid is like okay fine and
the next morning rolls around
and then parent asks the kid hey
did i do the right thing enforcing you
or do you want me to like not do that
anymore and then kid is like i'd say
honestly like 90 of the time they're
like force me you did the right thing
thank you
thank you for making me go to jiu jitsu
and then parent and child high five
they're on the same team they they did
it
parent is like awesome
right let's celebrate and then suddenly
this antagonistic interaction becomes
like a celebration
and then like this is happening in all
of their dimensions for a lot of the
kids half the kids anyway right like i'm
telling you guys this is not fictional
this actually happens this is what we
try to do
right it's about understanding your kid
and supporting your kid your kid doesn't
need you to fix their problems for them
that's not raising an adult it's
infantilizing a teenager
they don't need you to control them they
need you to support them
because video game addiction so people
will ask me so like i'm an expert
whatever the hell that means in video
game addiction so parents will ask me
what do you do with your kids
do you let them play video games and i
say yes
i do
do you let them watch tv yes i do
they're like what
then i say it's my philosophy that it's
better to teach a child restraint rather
than restriction
so i've seen this a lot like in the
indian community where like parents will
be super strict
no boyfriends no girlfriends no drinking
no smoking no video games it's math club
mathletes
you know math competition those are all
three separate things i'm not talking
about one thing they enroll their kid in
all three
piano or violin
either acceptable
no drama no theater
none of that stuff
you can do space camp space camp is
acceptable
and no parties
no short no no dresses above the knee no
tattoos no coloring of the hair
you're gonna be a good you're gonna be a
good indian kid you know and then they
go to college
30 percent of them maybe 50 of them wind
up great they're like totally fine with
that they get 4.00 they do fantastic the
other 50
fall apart
drinking drugs tattoos
rebellion
rebellion oh my goodness he's been
corrupted by american culture
india is so much better he's corrupted
hurry up
corrupted it's bad influence he has that
friend
his friend
is mexican or a bapre he's hanging out
with these boys
that is the problem
it is not because i taught him let's do
little bit of racism too because we are
indian it's what we do
it is not my fault
this this boy is
he's hanging out with the wrong crowd
he's doing the drinking and the drugs
harebapre
i do not understand why he's not going
to the math clubs
it's
corrupted hario
what are we going to do
this should not happen it is problem
with american values
american culture is bad
now even my younger son i'm not going to
even let him leave the house he's going
to do homeschool
and no friends that are not indian
no mexicans no even americans
chinese is okay
that's okay
it's okay
because they must do studies
right
that's the attitude
so teach restraint over restriction
teach your kids how to regulate
themselves
right give them the option and teach
them how to like restrain themselves
yes
problem
so anyway going back to this case
so i think this is a case that we see
time and time and time again
and what i think it comes down to is
like parent is trying to control child
and child is gonna win they're gonna
manifest things to get out of school
until they've succeeded and i don't know
if you guys remember like this is the
people in our community are this way too
y'all have been the kid
right
who is like
who has done the physical illness stuff
we see posts about that too where people
like manifest weird like illnesses
and it's all psychosomatic because the
mind and the body are connected
and we know this
we know that for example like stress
worsens heart disease right if you guys
want to hear about that we can talk
about that in a second
so overall when it comes to like
interacting with your parents and if
you're a parent who's watching this it's
it's all about understanding your kid
it's not you i get that you love your
kid but it's just like your kid isn't 14
they're not 12. they're 16. they have
thoughts they have feelings i don't know
what's going on with my kids so then ask
instead of assuming oh the problem is
that they're like sleeping too late well
like maybe the reason they're sleeping
too late is something else
right things are not so simple
fixing their sleep schedule is going to
be a major part of it i don't doubt that
like sleep schedule is huge
but it's not going to like fix all the
psychological problems that cause them
to like go into gaming it's just not
going to be sufficient there's a lot
more that needs to happen to it so our
approach at least working with parents
is to start by building an alliance and
then helping them set healthy boundaries
and sort of the way that i explained he
all would like the jiu jitsu example
right it's about letting the kid know
and there's another thing that we try to
teach that oh this is tough another
thing that we try to teach parents is to
let their kids fail
right so i don't know i'll give you guys
this it's very important for parents to
learn you got to learn how to teacher
you have to learn how to let your child
fail so i'll give you guys an example so
sometimes with parents who try to set
limits around video games okay so here's
one of my favorite ones so it's like
if you i we're going to do accent again
okay so if you are going to want to play
the video game you must get
3.5 gpa
you have to study every day and if you
don't get 3.5 gpa i'm going to take the
game away and the kids like okay dad
cool whatever
and so then what happens like what
happens the next day right so let's say
you have this conversation on sunday
monday kid comes home doesn't study
what does the parent do are you studying
why aren't you studying
you should study if you don't get 3.5
i'm taking the game away i told you
i've told you before
you should study
and then the kid's like yeah dad i'll do
it i'll do it whatever i was like
and then like two hours go by dad's back
what are you doing you're still not
studying i've told you 3.5 i've told you
before
so parents start nagging right so like
suddenly you set this limit on the child
where they're responsible for getting a
3.5 gpa
but who's actually taking the
responsibility
you're laying the theoretical
responsibility on the kid
but
you are taking the responsibility as a
parent you're nagging them hey i want
you to succeed i want don't don't fail
don't fail don't fail i can't let you
fail like even though i said that you
can handle it and you said you can
handle it now i'm not gonna let you
handle it i'm gonna intercede on your
behalf and i've heard this from kids
where like you know parents will set
limits and like the parent will be like
did you want me do you want me to remind
you to do your homework and the kids
like no i can handle my homework myself
i don't need you to stop nagging me mom
stop nagging me it's like stop doing it
i can i'm i'm i'm 16 years old i'm
basically an adult i can take care of
myself
and then the parent takes a step back
and then kid
gets a d
what does kid do get pissed at the
parent
why didn't you remind me mom
oh my god i forgot it's your fault that
i forgot it's your fault you didn't
remind me you were supposed to remind me
no i wasn't
right so this is the problem if you're
going to give your kids the
responsibility give them the
responsibility you got to let them fail
or don't give them the responsibility
you can't have it halfway
so letting the parents
let their kids fail teaching the parents
how to let their kids fail is one of the
most important things that we offer
and it's hard believe me it's hard
because if he does gets to see
oh my goodness he's not going to get to
harvard or yale
oh my goodness his future is destroyed
we will not be able to find a good girl
i want to have ivy league
daughter-in-law
educated but not too educated
son must be more educated right
right so you can't let your kid fail
because then that has consequences
so then you protect your kid from the
consequences you don't let them you
don't let them damage their own life and
in doing so you infantilize them
and then you accept responsibility for
their situation even though you don't
have the power to control their
situation suddenly their grades are your
fault
but you can't do the studying
boy i have no doubt in my mind that
there's a handful of indian parents out
there that would take the test for their
kids if they could
right
and then you have a man-child
which is what a lot of indian men grow
up to be because their parents will
infantilize them
no no beta you don't need to learn how
to wipe your own ass let mommy do it for
you
yes
mommy needs to get it properly so you
don't have dingleberry
alright papre my boy
hi papra
right
all right
so if if parents are watching that
they can google what anyway
let mommy do it for you
all right
so you got to let your you got to let
your kids fail right so like in doing
getting to that process and this is the
cool thing is you don't oftentimes once
they know that you're not there
or what's going to happen is they'll ask
you for their help and that's it's just
like what i was saying earlier about
like
let them ask you for your help so it's
like the jiu jitsu thing where you ask
them hey do you want me to do this for
you you have to have them ask you for it
right they have to understand you can't
force your help on them because they're
gonna reject it anyway like the dad is
doing everything right in a sense right
he's like trying to get his kid into
therapy he's like taking away the game
he's like sort of setting a regular
sleep schedule
he's doing everything right but the kid
is fighting him every sense
every step of the way so this is what
we've learned at hg is like if your kid
is fighting you every step of the way
it's not gonna work
it just doesn't work and the first step
is that you and your kid like i don't
know if you guys get this but if someone
in your life has an addiction
they have to be trying to kick it in
order to kick it
you guys get that like you can't make an
alcoholic sober from the outside like
they have to want to be sober
and even then it's an uphill battle with
all of the support and all of the
resources because you're dealing with an
addiction
and parents are out there trying to fix
these problems for their kids instead of
working with their kids because it's
just not going to work
right
and so we try to do this kind of stuff i
don't know if this stuff was relatable
to y'all or not
but i mean this is the big thing and
speaking of which
you know we're talking about evolution
earlier i think parents have a higher
uh how can i say this our society has
evolved where old styles of parenting
are insufficient so my parents never
talk to me like the way that we teach
you know
kids the way that we teach parents to
talk to kids this level of communication
has not been necessary in the past for
whatever reason i'm not quite sure maybe
it was i don't know
but it's been my experience that the
challenges that kids face now like for
example the pandemic with depression
getting worse you know suicide remaining
basically stable anxiety getting worse
video game addiction rates are climbing
through the roof i think they're close
to like 11 percent of the population now
which is no sorry not 11 percent of the
population 11 of people under the age of
18.
so that's twice as bad as alcoholism
it's like staggering so stuff is getting
worse and i think parents unfortunately
like just being a good parent is no
longer sufficient the world that kids
are growing up in case in point with our
case with the person who doesn't know
how to go outside
there are so many basic things about the
world that has changed and we have to
change with it parents have to change
with it we as kids have to change with
it
right
and so it's challenging i don't blame
them that's what we try to help them
because it's like it's not their fault
like parenting maybe used to be easier i
don't even know if it's fair to say that
but the problems that parents used to
face were different now it's like you
know you gotta
it is i do think things are more
challenging because back in my day video
games were not designed by like
psychologists and behavioral economists
right they were designed by like
i guess people in japan who thought that
plumber italian plumbers make good
heroes and then instead of like dragons
as enemies we're gonna have a turtle
and
and that's what that's who used to
design games and now we have these like
billion-dollar corporations
that are like you know hiring
psychologists and behavioral economists
and things like that
that are like
designing games so that you're okay like
if you look at these ipad things right
like kids used to spend like hundreds of
dollars on the ipad without their
parents even knowing that's that's how
things are designed
so i do think it's an uphill battle and
i don't blame parents like i mean i i
was kind of harsh on this dad which is a
little bit unfair it's sort of not the
dude's fault but i think he's kind of
screwing up you know so
have some compassion but also hold
people accountable
you